[IMP] pos: update Invoices documentation (#17310)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/point_of_sale/use/pos_invoices.rst

.. _pos/invoices/invoices:

========
Invoices
========

Point of Sale allows for :ref:`generating <pos/invoices/generate>` invoices for
:ref:`registered customers <pos/use/customers>` upon payment, :ref:`retrieving
<pos/invoices/retrieve>` all past invoiced orders, and :ref:`self-scanning and downloading

> <pos/invoices/qr-codes>` an invoice from a QR code or URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Point of Sale allows for :ref:`generating <pos/invoices/generate>` invoices for
:ref:`registered customers <pos/use/customers>`, :ref:`retrieving
<pos/invoices/retrieve>` all past invoiced orders, and :ref:`accessing and downloading
<pos/invoices/qr-codes>` an invoice using a QR code or URL.
```
- not necessarily *upon payment*, could be at other times
- you don't *scan* a URL

.. note::
   An invoice created in a POS creates an entry into the corresponding :ref:`accounting journal
   <cheat_sheet/journals>` :ref:`configured in the POS settings <pos/invoices/configuration>`.

.. _pos/invoices/configuration:

Configuration
=============

To define the default journals for a specific POS, go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale -->
Configuration --> Settings`, scroll down to the :guilabel:`Accounting` section, and select the
appropriate journals for :guilabel:`Orders` and :guilabel:`Invoices` under :guilabel:`Default
Journals`. To modify the selected default journal, click the :icon:`fa-arrow-right`

> (:guilabel:`Internal link`) icon.

Reviewer: Did you see and understand [my previous comment about this](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/17310#discussion_r3064168597)? I don't see any reaction or reply to that comment so I'm not sure

Author: After discussing with the BA, users should not change/modify journals here, nor should they define another journal than what Odoo already assigns. 

However, they could set the Orders field to another journal for better traceability (a bit like the "Intermediary Account" in the payment method config - [see note](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/19.0/applications/sales/point_of_sale/payment_methods.html)). And if they wanted their invoices to be recorded elsewhere, then they should create another company. 

Now I'm wondering if this **Configuration** should be a note instead. Because you don't necessarily need to configure this, Odoo does it for you already. Changing this is an option. What do you think?

Author: ```suggestion
.. note::
   - An invoice created in a POS creates an entry into the corresponding :ref:`accounting journal
     <cheat_sheet/journals>` :ref:`configured in the POS settings <pos/invoices/configuration>`.
   - Specific journals can also be defined for each :doc:`payment method <../payment_methods>`.
   - To modify the default journals for orders and invoices, for example, for better traceability,
     go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Configuration --> Settings`. Scroll down to the
     :guilabel:`Accounting` section, and select the appropriate journals for :guilabel:`Orders` and
     :guilabel:`Invoices` under :guilabel:`Default Journals`.
```

.. note::
   Specific journals can also be defined for each :doc:`payment method <../payment_methods>`.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`/applications/finance/accounting/get_started/journals`

.. _pos/invoices/generate:

> Invoice generation

Reviewer: - I would create sub-sections (headings) for each different use case and focus on the concrete action, rather then the UI "location" (e.g., *after payment* instead of *from the Orders overview*): upon payment, after payment, and creating invoices for multiple sales orders --> see my comment about this one specifically on line 70)
- I think the Upon payment flow should be documented first, that's probably the most common one, right?
- In this **whole section**, please include the fact that users can assign a customer to the order during the ordering process **in the steps directly**, like I mentionned in [this comment](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/17310#discussion_r3063991910) and the suggestion.

==================

> To create and send an invoice to a customer from the :ref:`Orders overview <pos/use/orders>`, follow

Reviewer: Here we have to add that this is also for orders that haven't been invoiced yet (maybe we need to mention this in the main introduction actually since it's going to be common for all "methods" of generating invoices?)

--> otherwise we'll see Reprint Invoice instead

Author: Hey! I'm not sure I understand this comment. Why add that this concerns orders that haven't been invoiced yet, whereas creating and sending invoices already implies that orders haven't been invoiced. This is how I've updated this section. Let me know ;) : 

```suggestion
.. _pos/invoices/generate-overview:

When retrieving orders
------------------------

To create and issue an invoice to a customer when :ref:`retrieving orders <pos/use/orders>` from
the POS register, follow these steps:

#. Click :guilabel:`Orders` in the POS interface.
#. Set the :guilabel:`Active` dropdown menu to :guilabel:`Paid`.
#. Select the relevant order and click :icon:`fa-file-pdf-o` :guilabel:`Invoice` above the numpad.
#. Click :guilabel:`Ok` in the popover, then select or :ref:`create a customer <pos/use/customers>`.
```

Reviewer: To make it clear that we're talking about creating invoices for the first time (as opposed to regenerating invoices). That's something people might not think of; they might just wonder how they can generate an invoice for an order and not think of the current order status.

and I'm not convinced with the *when retrieving orders* part, I think we're focusing on the wrong thing here, I don't think people will ask themselves (and therefore search for) "how can i generate/create an invoice when retrieving orders"? I understand why you might not like my original suggestion but let's keep thinking here maybe?

maybe we should even have sections for:
- "at the end of the ordering process"
- after the ordering process (I.e., from the orders overview) and then have two different flows for 1) if an invoice has already been created for the order or 2) if no invoice has been created for the order yet 
- for multiple sales orders at once

--> this isn't the exact wording by any means, just the general idea/content

I hope this is clearer, if not, let's figure this out IRL please and really take the time to make this Invoice generation logical and clear

these steps:

> #. Click the :guilabel:`Active` dropdown menu and select :guilabel:`Paid`.

Reviewer: Given my comment above, I'd add a step above this one for accessing the orders overview

#. Select the relevant order and click :icon:`fa-file-pdf-o` :guilabel:`Invoice` above the numpad.

> #. Click :guilabel:`Ok` in the popover, then select or :ref:`create a customer <pos/use/customers>`.

Reviewer: Selecting or creating a customer is only needed if there was no customer linked to the order in the first place (when the order was created)

EDIT: I added a general comment about this for this section but will leave this here anyways

Author: I've added an item list in the note below

```suggestion
.. note::
   - Skip step `4` if a customer is already selected from the POS register, as the overview 
     displays orders related to that customer.  
```

Author: UPDATE: just seen the next comment, it's a single note now

Reviewer: I think you are missing my point, I'd like to see this added *in the steps*, [like I mentionned in my first](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/17310#discussion_r3063991910) and [second](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/17310#discussion_r3091828146) reviews

.. tip::
   To reprint the invoice, select the relevant order and click :icon:`fa-file-pdf-o`
   :guilabel:`Reprint Invoice` above the numpad.

> .. note::

Reviewer: I'd suggest moving the content of the note to the tip above (as a list item)

   To issue an invoice from the backend, go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Orders --> Orders`,
   select the relevant order, add a customer in the :guilabel:`Customer` field, then click
   :guilabel:`Invoice`.

To create and send an invoice to a customer on the :ref:`Payment <pos/use/sell>` screen, follow
these steps:

> #. Enable :icon:`fa-file-text-o` :guilabel:`Invoice`.

Reviewer: Is there a way to make this automatic? I don't think you answered this question in my first review.

Author: From what I see, you can send automatic invoice follow-ups (which occur after this first invoice), but there don't appear to be any features to automate invoice sending when selecting a customer. The BAs told me this mostly concerns accounting.

However, if the selected customer is a company, then the "Invoice" checkbox is automatically enabled. 

I'll add it as a note

#. Click :icon:`fa-user` :guilabel:`Customer`, then select or :ref:`create a customer
   <pos/use/customers>`.
#. Select a :doc:`payment method <../payment_methods>` and click :guilabel:`Validate`.

The invoice is automatically issued and downloaded. To simultaneously send the receipt and the
invoice from the :ref:`Receipt <pos/configuration/receipts>` screen, click the
:icon:`fa-paper-plane` (:guilabel:`send`) button next to the customer's email address.

.. tip::
   Alternatively, :ref:`assign a customer to an order <pos/use/customers>` from the POS register

>    to issue the invoice upon payment.

Reviewer: Any particular reason why you decided to have this here and not in the steps like I suggested in my last review?

Author: It's been updated

To generate a single global invoice for all orders linked to the same customer that are not yet
invoiced (i.e., invoices with an :guilabel:`Invoice Status` set to :guilabel:`To Invoice`), follow

> these steps:

Reviewer: I think we should reframe this as *generating invoices (whether one per SO or a consolidated one) for multiple sales orders*; the consolidation part is just an option IMO:

```suggestion
To generate invoices for multiple orders from the same customer that are not yet
invoiced (i.e., invoices with an :guilabel:`Invoice Status` set to :guilabel:`To Invoice`), follow
these steps:
```
- note 1: the concept of generating invoices for multiple sales orders is not specific to POS but since it's not documented anywhere in the Accounting doc at the moment, we'll leave it here (there's a task to update the Accounting doc and they'll update this page when they get to it)
- note 2: the part about *not yet invoiced* could be removed if you decide to add it in the introduction under the main heading *Invoice generation*

> #. Go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Orders --> Customers`.

Reviewer: I noticed there's actually a default *Customer invoices* filter which prevents us from seeing all contacts in the db but I don't understand what it does exactly:

<img width="642" height="244" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f43893c5-9ede-44f8-971a-2dc377a5de40" />

We probably need to figure this out and mention it since it's preventing us from seeing all contacts?

EDIT: Actually, this has me rethinking my suggestion to have this method as the "primary" method for creating invoices for multiple orders from the same customer. Maybe it would make more sense to go through POS --> Orders --> Orders like you had in the previous version since it actually has less steps? And then we would mention this method here in the tip instead). Make sure you mention that the orders **can** be grouped by customer though (which isn't in the tip on line 80-81 currently)

> #. Click the customer's :guilabel:`Name`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click the relevant customer.
```
you don't necessarily have to click their name, you could click anywhere on the line and it would open the form

> #. Click the :icon:`fa-shopping-bag` (:guilabel:`PoS Orders`) smart button on the customer form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click the :icon:`fa-shopping-bag` :guilabel:`PoS Orders` smart button on the customer form.
```
because it's the actual label of the smart button (not tooltip)

> #. Select the relevant orders, click :guilabel:`Create Invoices`, then :guilabel:`Create`.

Reviewer: and then here you need to mention the Consolidate billing feature I think, to explain that we can create one invoice per order or consolidate them and create a single invoice for all selected orders (like you originally mentionned). 

See [this tutorial](https://youtu.be/14AIEJ_B7rA?t=226)

.. tip::
   Alternatively, go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Orders --> Orders`, select the relevant

>    orders, click :guilabel:`Create Invoices`, then :guilabel:`Create`.

Reviewer: see my other comment about having this back as the main method

.. seealso::
   `Receipts and Invoices (video tutorial) <https://youtu.be/w_DKgHcIV0U?si=Gnf6untzAz2zvNku>`_

.. _pos/invoices/retrieve:

Invoice retrieval
=================

Retrieving invoices is useful for customer requests and accounting purposes, for example. To view,
download, reprint, or send past transactions, follow these steps:

#. Go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Orders --> Orders`.
#. Click the relevant order in the list.

> #. Click the :guilabel:`Invoice` smart button on the order form to access the invoice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click the :guilabel:`Invoice` smart button on the order form.
```

#. Click the following buttons to manage the invoice:

   - :guilabel:`Send`: Send or resend the invoice.
   - :guilabel:`Print`: Open the browser's print function or download the invoice.
   - :guilabel:`Preview`: Preview and download the invoice.
   - :guilabel:`Credit Note`: Issue a :ref:`credit note <accounting/credit_notes/issue-credit-note>`
     to a customer.
   - :guilabel:`Reset to Draft`: Reset the invoice to draft if changes are needed.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`/applications/finance/accounting/customer_invoices`

.. _pos/invoices/qr-codes:

Invoice generation via QR codes
===============================

To allow customers to request an invoice by scanning a QR code printed on their :ref:`receipt

> <pos/configuration/receipts>`, follow these steps:

Reviewer: Should the heading and intro be changed to take into account the URL option as well?

#. Go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Configuration --> Settings`.
#. Scroll down to the :guilabel:`Bills & Receipts` section.
#. Enable the :guilabel:`Self-service invoicing` setting.
#. Set the :guilabel:`Print` field to :guilabel:`QR code`, :guilabel:`URL`, or :guilabel:`QR code +
   URL` to determine how customers can access their invoice (e.g., by scanning the QR code or by
   typing the URL in a browser).

Upon scanning the QR code or typing the URL in a browser, customers must fill in a form with the
information on the receipt (i.e., the :guilabel:`Ticket Number`, :guilabel:`Date`, and

> :guilabel:`Unique code`), then click :guilabel:`Request Invoice`. Additionally, customers must enter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
information on the receipt (i.e., the :guilabel:`Ticket Number`, :guilabel:`Date`, and
:guilabel:`Unique code`) and click :guilabel:`Request Invoice`. Then, they must enter
```

their billing information or sign in and click :guilabel:`Get my invoice`. The invoice is then
generated and available for download, and the order status in the :guilabel:`Orders` view is updated

> to :guilabel:`Fully Invoiced`.

Reviewer: not just in the orders view, it's everywhere in the db (backend, frontend, other apps such as Sales if people have them, etc.)

```suggestion
generated and available for download, and the order's status is updated to :guilabel:`Fully Invoiced`.
```

.. _pos/invoices/invoices:

========
Invoices
========

Point of Sale allows for :ref:`creating <pos/invoices/generate>` invoices for :ref:`registered
customers <pos/use/customers>`, :ref:`retrieving <pos/invoices/retrieve>` all past invoiced orders,
and :ref:`accessing and downloading <pos/invoices/qr-codes>` an invoice using a QR code or URL.

> .. note::

Reviewer: I think I would move this note under Invoice creation maybe instead of here in the general intro? (I'd recommend under the important note on line 33)

   - An invoice created in a POS creates an entry into the corresponding :ref:`accounting journal
     <cheat_sheet/journals>` configured in the :ref:`POS settings <pos/use/settings>`. To modify the
     default journals for orders and invoices, go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Configuration
     --> Settings`, scroll down to the :guilabel:`Accounting` section, and select the appropriate
     journals in the :guilabel:`Orders` and :guilabel:`Invoices` fields under :guilabel:`Default
     Journals`.
   - Specific journals can also be defined for each :doc:`payment method <../payment_methods>`.

.. seealso::
   `Receipts and Invoices (video tutorial) <https://youtu.be/w_DKgHcIV0U?si=Gnf6untzAz2zvNku>`_

.. _pos/invoices/generate:

Invoice creation
================

> Use one of the following methods to create an invoice, depending on the workflow: :ref:`during

Reviewer: I'd simplify the beginning of the sentence here to be more direct and only keep what is necessary and i'd recommend using the passive voice here (sorry!):

```suggestion
Invoices can be created :ref:`during
```

.. note::
   If the registered customer's :ref:`contact type <essentials/contacts/type>` is set to
   :guilabel:`Company`, the :icon:`fa-file-text-o` :guilabel:`Invoice` checkbox is automatically
   enabled.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`receipts`

.. _pos/invoices/generate-overview:

After the ordering process
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To create and issue an invoice to the customer from the POS register after an order is processed,
follow these steps:

#. Click :guilabel:`Orders` in the POS interface.
#. Set the :guilabel:`Active` dropdown menu to :guilabel:`Paid`.
#. Select the relevant order and click :icon:`fa-file-pdf-o` :guilabel:`Invoice` above the numpad.

.. tip::
   To reprint the invoice, select the relevant order and click :icon:`fa-file-pdf-o`
   :guilabel:`Reprint Invoice` above the numpad.

From the backend
----------------

.. _pos/invoices/backend:

Backend invoice creation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To create and issue an invoice from the backend, follow these steps:

#. Go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Orders --> Orders`.
#. Select the relevant order.
#. Add the :guilabel:`Customer` if needed, then click :guilabel:`Invoice`.

> 

Reviewer: I think i'd add a doc link to this doc here: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/master/applications/finance/accounting/customer_invoices.html

.. _pos/invoices/generate-global:

Consolidated customer invoice
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To create a consolidated invoice for all orders linked to the same customer that are not yet
invoiced (i.e., invoices with an :guilabel:`Invoice Status` set to :guilabel:`To Invoice`), follow
these steps:

#. Go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Orders --> Orders`.

> #. Click the search bar to filter by :guilabel:`Customer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click the search bar and :guilabel:`Group By` :guilabel:`Customer`.
```

#. Click the :icon:`fa-caret-right` (:guilabel:`caret`) icon next to the relevant customer and

>    enable :guilabel:`Order Ref`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   enable :guilabel:`Order Ref` in the column header or select the relevant orders.
```
- to be a bit more precise with the check box location
- since users might want to only select a few orders, not all of them so I'd add that as another option

#. Click :guilabel:`Create Invoices`, keep the :guilabel:`Consolidated Billing` option enabled,
   then click :guilabel:`Create`.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Consolidated Billing` option is enabled by default. To create an individual

>    invoice for each sales order, disable the option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. tip::
   To create an individual invoice for each sales order, disable the :guilabel:`Consolidated Billing` option.
```
since you used *Consolidated customer invoice* as a section heading (which works well I think!), I think it makes more sense to  put this in a tip and rephrase slightly

   - :guilabel:`Preview`: Preview and download the invoice.
   - :guilabel:`Credit Note`: Issue a :ref:`credit note <accounting/credit_notes/issue-credit-note>`
     to the customer.
   - :guilabel:`Reset to Draft`: Reset the invoice to draft if changes are needed.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`/applications/finance/accounting/customer_invoices`

.. _pos/invoices/qr-codes:

Invoice generation via QR code and URL
======================================

To allow customers to request an invoice by scanning a QR code printed on their :ref:`receipt
<pos/configuration/receipts>`, follow these steps:

#. Go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Configuration --> Settings`.
#. Scroll down to the :guilabel:`Bills & Receipts` section.
#. Enable the :guilabel:`Self-service invoicing` setting.
#. Set the :guilabel:`Print` field to :guilabel:`QR code`, :guilabel:`URL`, or :guilabel:`QR code +
   URL` to determine how customers can access their invoice (e.g., by scanning the QR code or by
   typing the URL in a browser).

Upon scanning the QR code or typing the URL in a browser, customers must fill in a form with the
information on the receipt (i.e., the :guilabel:`Ticket Number`, :guilabel:`Date`, and

> :guilabel:`Unique code`), and click :guilabel:`Request Invoice`. Then, they must enter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Unique code`) and click :guilabel:`Request Invoice`. Then, they must enter
```

Configuration
=============

To define the default journals for a specific POS, go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale -->
Configuration --> Settings`, scroll down to the :guilabel:`Accounting` section, and select the
appropriate journals for :guilabel:`Orders` and :guilabel:`Invoices` under :guilabel:`Default

> Journals`.

Reviewer: From what I was able to test, some default journals are created and added in the fields here automatically? Could please check this and rephrase accordingly, e.g.:

```suggestion
To modify the default journals for a specific POS, go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale -->
Configuration --> Settings`, scroll down to the :guilabel:`Accounting` section, and select the
appropriate journals for :guilabel:`Orders` and :guilabel:`Invoices` under :guilabel:`Default
Journals`.
```

.. image:: pos_invoices/invoice-config.png

>    :alt: accounting section in the POS settings

Reviewer: I'd remove the screenshot, I don't think it's needed

.. note::

>    Specific journals can also be defined for each :doc:`payment method <../payment_methods>`.

Reviewer: and I would definitely add a seealso to the Journals doc!

> Customer invoicing

Reviewer: It might be me, but in my mind *invoicing* refers to issuing payment requests to customers, which isn't really the case here (since in most cases, in a POS context, the payment will be processed on the spot anyways, people just need an invoice for accounting/fiscal purposes). 

I think we should maybe rename this section *Customer invoice creation* or *Customer invoice* if you prefer to staty a bit more general?

==================

> To invoice a customer from the :ref:`Payment screen <pos/use/sell>`, follow these steps:

Reviewer: And I think we should rephrase this to have proper "general" introduction (+ see my comment above about "invoicing customers")

```suggestion
Invoices can be created and sent to customers at the end of the :ref:`ordering process <add relevant ref>`. To do so, follow these steps:
```

Author: Lines 7 and 8 already have a similar introduction, writing one here would be redundant

Reviewer: Yes you're right, I'd rephrase my suggestion to be more direct then:

```suggestion
To create and send an invoice to the customer at the end of the :ref:`ordering process <add relevant ref>`, follow these steps, follow these steps:
```
I still think it's important to add the context (*at the end of the ordering process*) since you can create and send an invoice at other times as well

And then you'll probably need to change the general doc's intro based on my general feedback, too

#. Enable :icon:`fa-file-text-o` :guilabel:`Invoice`.
#. Click :icon:`fa-user` :guilabel:`Customer`.
#. Choose or :ref:`create a customer <pos/use/customers>`.

Continue the :ref:`payment process <pos/use/sell>`. The invoice is automatically issued and ready

> for download and/or printing.

Reviewer: - Users can assign a customer to the order before accessing the payment screen, so the instructions should take this into account
- I'd mention the payment screen here since we removed it from above to focus on the general context.
- From what I tested (to be checked!), at the end of the process, the invoice is automatically downloaded, not printed?
- To send the invoice (and receipt!) by email, users need ot click the send button manually? (--> can it be done automatically at all? to be checked!)

```suggestion
#. On the :`payment screen <pos/use/sell>`, if no customer is :ref:`assigned to the order <pos/use/customers>` yet, click :guilabel:`Customer` and select the relevant customer or create a new one
#. Enable :icon:`fa-file-text-o` :guilabel:`Invoice`.
#. Proceed with the :ref:`payment <pos/use/sell>.

The invoice is automatically downloaded; click the :icon:`fa-paper-plane` (:guilabel:`send`) button to send it to the customer via email address.
```
or something similar (but close)

> 
> To create a single global invoice for all orders linked to the same customer or invoicing address,
> follow these steps:

Reviewer: see my comment on line 55-56 for the reason
and aslo is there a particular reason why you're mentioning the invoicing address specifically? since the way we can find the orders is through the customer anyways?

```suggestion
To create a single global invoice for all orders linked to the same customer **that have not yet been invoiced** (i.e., those with an :guilabel:`Invoice Status` of :guilabel:`To Invoice`), follow these steps:
```

> 

Reviewer: You could also go to Point of Sale --> Orders --> Customers, select the customer, click the POS orders smart button, and then proceed the same way as described below. I think this option even makes more sense for the specific use case ("global invoice") you are describing here? Since the customer is easier to find this way? 

In any case, I would include this option in the steps below.

#. Go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Orders --> Orders`.

> #. Click the search bar and filter by :guilabel:`Customer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click the search bar and group by :guilabel:`Customer`.
```

#. Click the :icon:`fa-caret-right` (:guilabel:`caret`) icon next to a customer to display their
   orders.
#. Tick the :guilabel:`Order Ref` checkbox, click :guilabel:`Create Invoices`, then

>    :guilabel:`Create`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Select the relevant orders.
#. Click :guilabel:`Create Invoices`, then :guilabel:`Create`.
```

.. note::
   To issue a global invoice, the orders' :guilabel:`Invoice Status` must be set to :guilabel:`To
   Invoice`.

> 

Reviewer: I think this should be mentioned first and foremost since this is a prerequiste; see my suggestion on lines 44-45.

Invoice retrieval
=================

> To retrieve the invoice of a POS order, follow these steps:

Reviewer: to do what for example? I think a specific use case would be helpful here (OR, even better, integrate this workflow in a more useful one such as reprint/resend an invoice, see my general comment about this)

#. On the order form, click the :guilabel:`Invoice` smart button.

.. tip::
   To filter the list of orders to display only invoiced orders, click the search bar and select
   the :guilabel:`Invoiced` filter.

Invoice generation via QR codes
===============================

To allow customers to request an invoice by scanning a QR code printed on their :ref:`receipt
<pos/configuration/receipts>`, follow these steps:

#. Go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Configuration --> Settings`.
#. Select the POS in the :guilabel:`Point of Sale` field, and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Bills &
   Receipts` section.

> #. Enable :guilabel:`Use QR code on ticket`.

Reviewer: Did you test this flow?! This setting has disappeared since 18.0 (or before, in a 17 minor version maybe?) and I think it was replaced with this one:

<img width="491" height="251" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/698ad593-1473-4f5e-a113-a3e9468d85de" />

Could you please review this entire section accordingly?

Upon scanning, customers must fill in a form with their billing information and click :guilabel:`Get
my invoice`. The invoice is then generated and available for download, and the order status is

> updated to :guilabel:`Fully Invoiced`.

Reviewer: And is the invoice then available even if you don't enable the Invoice option on the payment screen?

Author: Yes
